(1) Why is it called a pseudo-class? 

A pseudo-class is called such because it is used to style certain states of an element in CSS, but does not actually exist as a "class" in the HTML code. It is "pseudo" in the sense that it is not a real class, but a way to apply styles to elements based on certain conditions or states. Examples of pseudo-classes include :hover, :active, and :focus. These can be used to change the appearance of elements when they are hovered over, clicked on, or have focus, respectively.

(2) What are gradients in CSS?

Gradients in CSS are a way to create a smooth transition between two or more colors. There are two types of gradients: linear and radial.

A linear gradient starts with one color and gradually transitions to another color in a straight line. The direction of the gradient can be set using the to keyword and an angle or a set of keywords (e.g. to top, to bottom right).

A radial gradient starts with one color in the center and gradually transitions to another color in a circular or elliptical shape. The position of the center and the shape of the gradient can be set using CSS properties.

Gradients can be set as the background for an element using the background-image property, and can also be set as the background property of an element.

Example :

css

background: linear-gradient(to bottom, #ff0000, #0000ff);
This creates a linear gradient that starts with red at the top and gradually transitions to blue at the bottom.

(3) What are different types of transitions in CSS?

In CSS, transitions are used to smoothly change the value of a CSS property over a specified duration of time. The basic syntax for a transition is as follows:

css

transition: property duration timing-function delay;


property is the CSS property that will be transitioned.
duration is the length of time that the transition will take, in seconds (s) or milliseconds (ms).
timing-function is the rate of change over time. It can be set as ease, linear, ease-in, ease-out, ease-in-out, or a cubic-bezier function.
delay is the amount of time that should elapse before the transition begins, in seconds (s) or milliseconds (ms).
The most commonly used transition properties are:

transition-property : the CSS property to be transitioned
transition-duration : the duration of the transition
transition-timing-function : the rate of change over time
transition-delay : the delay before the transition starts
Another important property is all which can be used to transition all the properties at once.

Example :

css

button {
    background-color: green;
    transition: background-color 1s ease-in-out;
}

button:hover {
    background-color: blue;
}
This will change the background color of the button from green to blue over the course of 1 second with a easing-in-out effect when hovered over.
